#summary JWASM assembler

= Introduction =

JWasm is a free MASM-compatible assembler 


= Features =

   * native support for output formats Intel OMF, MS Coff (32- and 64-bit), Elf (32-and 64-bit), Bin and DOS MZ.
   * precompiled JWasm binaries are available for DOS, Windows and Linux. For OS/2 and FreeBSD, makefiles are supplied.
   * Instructions up to SSE4.2 are supported.
   * JWasm is written in C. The source is portable and has successfully been tested with Open Watcom, MS VC, GCC and more.
   * As far as programming for Windows is concerned, JWasm can be used with both WinInc and Masm32. Since v2.01, it will also work with Sven B. Schreiber's ancient WALK32.
   * C header files can be converted to include files for JWasm with h2incX.
   * JWasm's source code is released under the Sybase Open Watcom Public License, which allows free commercial and non-commercial use.

= Compared to other assemblers =

== MASM ==

 * JWasm is free, no artificial license restrictions, can be used to create binaries for any OS.
 * JWasm is open source, forget the annoying MASM bugs ... 	
 * More output formats supported (Bin, ELF). 	
 * Optionally very small object modules can be created 	
 * Better support for Open Watcom, for example the register-based calling convention 	
 * JWasm is faster than Masm.

== TASM ==

 * JWasm is available. TASM isn't legally available. And LZASM, which is sort of a TASM clone, understands IDEAL mode only.
 * JWasm has full support for STRUCTs and UNIONs. TASM has severe limitations and bugs in this area. 	
 * JWasm supports virtually all MASM v6 features (PROTO, INVOKE, hll directives, ... ), most of which TASM won't understand. 	
 * JWasm supports instructions up to SSE4, TASM is behind.

== POASM ==

 * JWasm is open source
 * JWasm additionally supports output in OMF, ELF and binary format 	
 * JWasm supports 16-bit and segmented memory models. POASM understands FLAT only. 	
 * JWasm is compatible with MASM's implementation of macros. POASM isn't. 	
 * POASM lacks the ability to create a listing file.

== WASM ==

 * JWasm's macro capabilities are ways better than Wasm's. 
 * JWasm fully supports Masm v6 syntax. In Wasm, most of the additions done in Masm v6 are missing. 	
 * Besides OMF, JWasm supports COFF, ELF and binary output formats. 	
 * JWasm supports 64-bit. 


= History =

JWasm is a fork of Open Watcom's WASM v1.7a. The most remarkable features which have been implemented are: [http://www.japheth.de/JWasm/Wasm.html List of changes from Wasm 1.7a to JWasm 1.7]

= Links =

[http://www.japheth.de/JWasm.html Official JWASM site]